In the last lecture we have queried the relationship existence.
Now we'll do the opposite think will query the relationship absence.
What that means is let's get first older blog posts that exist inside the database so you see that we
have free so clear the screen and now what we would like to do is we would like to get all the blog
posts.
That does not have any comment on it so we would do a blog post and instead of has will do doesn't have
and we want to check for comments so doesn't have comments get.
You can see how expressive this syntax is.
It's like writing sentences in English plus a couple extra characters and what we get back is actually
an empty collection because all of our blog posts do have comments and you can check that by adding
a new blog post like for 1
and typing anything that will just pass the validation.
So now we have four and let's repeat that we can even copy this and paste it here so you can see it
is what we expected.
We have the fourth one the one we have just just added and it doesn't have a single comment.
That's why we got it back OK.
Let's clear this and now let's imagine that you want to find blog posts which are actually commented
by people using some meaningful comments not just dummy text like ABC.
Like all this free last comments.
So let's query for that we want all the blog posts that someone had something meaningful meaningful
to say in so we'll get posts using blog post and now since we want to write a query will do.
Where does it have instead.
Not just that doesn't have and we are checking their comments.
And this time will also have closure to which Lara will pass a query object and now inside our closure
will do query where content like
and we do not want anything that has ABC inside it.
Don't forget the semicolon closed the function and now close the method call to where doesn't have.
And finally we have to call get to actually execute this query and this is what we got.
So we get our first blog post which has five comments that doesn't have ABC and also we got our last
five fifth blog post which doesn't have any comments at all.
So as you can see we can make pretty complicated queries using very simple object oriented syntax so
in the next lecture We'll also cover making queries.
But this time we'll see how we can get the count of that related model.
So we'll see how we can fetch that count of comments together with all the blog posts which probably
will be very useful if you would like to display it on the main page where you display a list of blog
post which is a very common scenario.